docs/03-client-tools.md, before:

# Installing the Client Tools

First identify a system from where you will perform administrative tasks, such as creating certificates, kubeconfig files and distributing them to the different VMs.

If you are on a Linux laptop, then your laptop could be this system. In my case I chose the master-1 node to perform administrative tasks. Whichever system you chose make sure that system is able to access all the provisioned VMs through SSH to copy files over.

## Access all VMs

Generate Key Pair on master-1 node
`$ssh-keygen`

Leave all settings to default.

View the generated public key ID at:

```
$cat .ssh/id_rsa.pub
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQD......8+08b vagrant@master-1
```

Move public key of master to all other VMs

```
$cat >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys <<EOF
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQD......8+08b vagrant@master-1
EOF
```


## Install kubectl

The [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl). command line utility is used to interact with the Kubernetes API Server. Download and install `kubectl` from the official release binaries:

Reference: [https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

### Linux

```
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
```

```
chmod +x kubectl
```

```
sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin/
```

### Verification

Verify `kubectl` version 1.13.0 or higher is installed:

```
kubectl version --client
```

> output

```
Client Version: version.Info{Major:"1", Minor:"13", GitVersion:"v1.13.0", GitCommit:"ddf47ac13c1a9483ea035a79cd7c10005ff21a6d", GitTreeState:"clean", BuildDate:"2018-12-03T21:04:45Z", GoVersion:"go1.11.2", Compiler:"gc", Platform:"linux/amd64"}
```

Next: [Certificate Authority](04-certificate-authority.md)

Commit message:

Replaced how private keys gets moved
Using the standard ssh-copy-id command to perform the task.

docs/03-client-tools.md, after:

# Installing the Client Tools

First identify a system from where you will perform administrative tasks, such as creating certificates, kubeconfig files and distributing them to the different VMs.

If you are on a Linux laptop, then your laptop could be this system. In my case I chose the master-1 node to perform administrative tasks. Whichever system you chose make sure that system is able to access all the provisioned VMs through SSH to copy files over.

## Access all VMs

Generate Key Pair on master-1 node
`$ssh-keygen`

Leave all settings to default.

View the generated public key ID at:

```
$cat .ssh/id_rsa.pub
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQD......8+08b vagrant@master-1
```

Copy the public key of master to all other VMs

```
for host in master-1 master-2 worker-1 worker2
do
  $ssh-copy $host
done
```


## Install kubectl

The [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl). command line utility is used to interact with the Kubernetes API Server. Download and install `kubectl` from the official release binaries:

Reference: [https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

### Linux

```
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
```

```
chmod +x kubectl
```

```
sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin/
```

### Verification

Verify `kubectl` version 1.13.0 or higher is installed:

```
kubectl version --client
```

> output

```
Client Version: version.Info{Major:"1", Minor:"13", GitVersion:"v1.13.0", GitCommit:"ddf47ac13c1a9483ea035a79cd7c10005ff21a6d", GitTreeState:"clean", BuildDate:"2018-12-03T21:04:45Z", GoVersion:"go1.11.2", Compiler:"gc", Platform:"linux/amd64"}
```

Next: [Certificate Authority](04-certificate-authority.md)
