docs/08-bootstrapping-kubernetes-controllers.md, before:

# Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Control Plane

In this lab you will bootstrap the Kubernetes control plane across 2 compute instances and configure it for high availability. You will also create an external load balancer that exposes the Kubernetes API Servers to remote clients. The following components will be installed on each node: Kubernetes API Server, Scheduler, and Controller Manager.

## Prerequisites

The commands in this lab must be run on each controller instance: `master-1`, and `master-2`. Login to each controller instance using SSH Terminal. Example:

### Running commands in parallel with tmux

[tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki) can be used to run commands on multiple compute instances at the same time. See the [Running commands in parallel with tmux](01-prerequisites.md#running-commands-in-parallel-with-tmux) section in the Prerequisites lab.

## Provision the Kubernetes Control Plane

Create the Kubernetes configuration directory:

```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/config
```

### Download and Install the Kubernetes Controller Binaries

Download the official Kubernetes release binaries:

```
wget -q --show-progress --https-only --timestamping \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-apiserver" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-controller-manager" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-scheduler" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl"
```

Reference: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/#server-binaries

Install the Kubernetes binaries:

```
{
  chmod +x kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler kubectl
  sudo mv kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler kubectl /usr/local/bin/
}
```

### Configure the Kubernetes API Server

```
{
  sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/kubernetes/

  sudo cp ca.crt ca.key kube-apiserver.crt kube-apiserver.key \
    service-account.key service-account.crt \
    etcd-server.key etcd-server.crt \
    encryption-config.yaml /var/lib/kubernetes/
}
```

The instance internal IP address will be used to advertise the API Server to members of the cluster. Retrieve the internal IP address for the current compute instance:

```
INTERNAL_IP=$(ip addr show enp0s8 | grep "inet " | awk '{print $2}' | cut -d / -f 1)
```

Verify it is set

```
echo $INTERNAL_IP
```

Create the `kube-apiserver.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-apiserver.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes API Server
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-apiserver \\
  --advertise-address=${INTERNAL_IP} \\
  --allow-privileged=true \\
  --apiserver-count=3 \\
  --audit-log-maxage=30 \\
  --audit-log-maxbackup=3 \\
  --audit-log-maxsize=100 \\
  --audit-log-path=/var/log/audit.log \\
  --authorization-mode=Node,RBAC \\
  --bind-address=0.0.0.0 \\
  --client-ca-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --enable-admission-plugins=NodeRestriction,ServiceAccount \\
  --enable-swagger-ui=true \\
  --enable-bootstrap-token-auth=true \\
  --etcd-cafile=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --etcd-certfile=/var/lib/kubernetes/etcd-server.crt \\
  --etcd-keyfile=/var/lib/kubernetes/etcd-server.key \\
  --etcd-servers=https://192.168.5.11:2379,https://192.168.5.12:2379 \\
  --event-ttl=1h \\
  --encryption-provider-config=/var/lib/kubernetes/encryption-config.yaml \\
  --kubelet-certificate-authority=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --kubelet-client-certificate=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.crt \\
  --kubelet-client-key=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.key \\
  --kubelet-https=true \\
  --runtime-config=api/all \\
  --service-account-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/service-account.crt \\
  --service-cluster-ip-range=10.96.0.0/24 \\
  --service-node-port-range=30000-32767 \\
  --tls-cert-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.crt \\
  --tls-private-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.key \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Configure the Kubernetes Controller Manager

Move the `kube-controller-manager` kubeconfig into place:

```
sudo mv kube-controller-manager.kubeconfig /var/lib/kubernetes/
```

Create the `kube-controller-manager.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-controller-manager.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes Controller Manager
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-controller-manager \\
  --address=0.0.0.0 \\
  --cluster-cidr=192.168.5.0/24 \\
  --cluster-name=kubernetes \\
  --cluster-signing-cert-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --cluster-signing-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.key \\
  --kubeconfig=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-controller-manager.kubeconfig \\
  --leader-elect=true \\
  --root-ca-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --service-account-private-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/service-account.key \\
  --service-cluster-ip-range=10.96.0.0/24 \\
  --use-service-account-credentials=true \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Configure the Kubernetes Scheduler

Move the `kube-scheduler` kubeconfig into place:

```
sudo mv kube-scheduler.kubeconfig /var/lib/kubernetes/
```

Create the `kube-scheduler.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-scheduler.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes Scheduler
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-scheduler \\
  --kubeconfig=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-scheduler.kubeconfig \\
  --address=127.0.0.1 \\
  --leader-elect=true \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Start the Controller Services

```
{
  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl enable kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler
  sudo systemctl start kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler
}
```

> Allow up to 10 seconds for the Kubernetes API Server to fully initialize.


### Verification

```
kubectl get componentstatuses --kubeconfig admin.kubeconfig
```

```
NAME                 STATUS    MESSAGE              ERROR
controller-manager   Healthy   ok
scheduler            Healthy   ok
etcd-0               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
etcd-1               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
```

> Remember to run the above commands on each controller node: `master-1`, and `master-2`.

## The Kubernetes Frontend Load Balancer

In this section you will provision an external load balancer to front the Kubernetes API Servers. The `kubernetes-the-hard-way` static IP address will be attached to the resulting load balancer.


### Provision a Network Load Balancer

```
#Install HAProxy
loadbalancer# sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y haproxy

```

```
loadbalancer# cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg 
frontend kubernetes
    bind 192.168.5.30:6443
    option tcplog
    mode tcp
    default_backend kubernetes-master-nodes

backend kubernetes-master-nodes
    mode tcp
    balance roundrobin
    option tcp-check
    server master-1 192.168.5.11:6443 check fall 3 rise 2
    server master-2 192.168.5.12:6443 check fall 3 rise 2
EOF
```

```
loadbalancer# sudo service haproxy restart
```

### Verification

Make a HTTP request for the Kubernetes version info:

```
curl  https://192.168.5.30:6443/version -k
```

> output

```
{
  "major": "1",
  "minor": "13",
  "gitVersion": "v1.13.0",
  "gitCommit": "ddf47ac13c1a9483ea035a79cd7c10005ff21a6d",
  "gitTreeState": "clean",
  "buildDate": "2018-12-03T20:56:12Z",
  "goVersion": "go1.11.2",
  "compiler": "gc",
  "platform": "linux/amd64"
}
```

Next: [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md)

Commit message:

Clarify that we switch to loadbalancer host
Previous commands were all on master nodes. 
Below commands should be executed on loadbalancer host.

docs/08-bootstrapping-kubernetes-controllers.md, after:

# Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Control Plane

In this lab you will bootstrap the Kubernetes control plane across 2 compute instances and configure it for high availability. You will also create an external load balancer that exposes the Kubernetes API Servers to remote clients. The following components will be installed on each node: Kubernetes API Server, Scheduler, and Controller Manager.

## Prerequisites

The commands in this lab must be run on each controller instance: `master-1`, and `master-2`. Login to each controller instance using SSH Terminal. Example:

### Running commands in parallel with tmux

[tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki) can be used to run commands on multiple compute instances at the same time. See the [Running commands in parallel with tmux](01-prerequisites.md#running-commands-in-parallel-with-tmux) section in the Prerequisites lab.

## Provision the Kubernetes Control Plane

Create the Kubernetes configuration directory:

```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/config
```

### Download and Install the Kubernetes Controller Binaries

Download the official Kubernetes release binaries:

```
wget -q --show-progress --https-only --timestamping \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-apiserver" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-controller-manager" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kube-scheduler" \
  "https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.13.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl"
```

Reference: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/#server-binaries

Install the Kubernetes binaries:

```
{
  chmod +x kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler kubectl
  sudo mv kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler kubectl /usr/local/bin/
}
```

### Configure the Kubernetes API Server

```
{
  sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/kubernetes/

  sudo cp ca.crt ca.key kube-apiserver.crt kube-apiserver.key \
    service-account.key service-account.crt \
    etcd-server.key etcd-server.crt \
    encryption-config.yaml /var/lib/kubernetes/
}
```

The instance internal IP address will be used to advertise the API Server to members of the cluster. Retrieve the internal IP address for the current compute instance:

```
INTERNAL_IP=$(ip addr show enp0s8 | grep "inet " | awk '{print $2}' | cut -d / -f 1)
```

Verify it is set

```
echo $INTERNAL_IP
```

Create the `kube-apiserver.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-apiserver.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes API Server
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-apiserver \\
  --advertise-address=${INTERNAL_IP} \\
  --allow-privileged=true \\
  --apiserver-count=3 \\
  --audit-log-maxage=30 \\
  --audit-log-maxbackup=3 \\
  --audit-log-maxsize=100 \\
  --audit-log-path=/var/log/audit.log \\
  --authorization-mode=Node,RBAC \\
  --bind-address=0.0.0.0 \\
  --client-ca-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --enable-admission-plugins=NodeRestriction,ServiceAccount \\
  --enable-swagger-ui=true \\
  --enable-bootstrap-token-auth=true \\
  --etcd-cafile=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --etcd-certfile=/var/lib/kubernetes/etcd-server.crt \\
  --etcd-keyfile=/var/lib/kubernetes/etcd-server.key \\
  --etcd-servers=https://192.168.5.11:2379,https://192.168.5.12:2379 \\
  --event-ttl=1h \\
  --encryption-provider-config=/var/lib/kubernetes/encryption-config.yaml \\
  --kubelet-certificate-authority=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --kubelet-client-certificate=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.crt \\
  --kubelet-client-key=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.key \\
  --kubelet-https=true \\
  --runtime-config=api/all \\
  --service-account-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/service-account.crt \\
  --service-cluster-ip-range=10.96.0.0/24 \\
  --service-node-port-range=30000-32767 \\
  --tls-cert-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.crt \\
  --tls-private-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-apiserver.key \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Configure the Kubernetes Controller Manager

Move the `kube-controller-manager` kubeconfig into place:

```
sudo mv kube-controller-manager.kubeconfig /var/lib/kubernetes/
```

Create the `kube-controller-manager.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-controller-manager.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes Controller Manager
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-controller-manager \\
  --address=0.0.0.0 \\
  --cluster-cidr=192.168.5.0/24 \\
  --cluster-name=kubernetes \\
  --cluster-signing-cert-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --cluster-signing-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.key \\
  --kubeconfig=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-controller-manager.kubeconfig \\
  --leader-elect=true \\
  --root-ca-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/ca.crt \\
  --service-account-private-key-file=/var/lib/kubernetes/service-account.key \\
  --service-cluster-ip-range=10.96.0.0/24 \\
  --use-service-account-credentials=true \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Configure the Kubernetes Scheduler

Move the `kube-scheduler` kubeconfig into place:

```
sudo mv kube-scheduler.kubeconfig /var/lib/kubernetes/
```

Create the `kube-scheduler.service` systemd unit file:

```
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kube-scheduler.service
[Unit]
Description=Kubernetes Scheduler
Documentation=https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/kube-scheduler \\
  --kubeconfig=/var/lib/kubernetes/kube-scheduler.kubeconfig \\
  --address=127.0.0.1 \\
  --leader-elect=true \\
  --v=2
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

### Start the Controller Services

```
{
  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl enable kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler
  sudo systemctl start kube-apiserver kube-controller-manager kube-scheduler
}
```

> Allow up to 10 seconds for the Kubernetes API Server to fully initialize.


### Verification

```
kubectl get componentstatuses --kubeconfig admin.kubeconfig
```

```
NAME                 STATUS    MESSAGE              ERROR
controller-manager   Healthy   ok
scheduler            Healthy   ok
etcd-0               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
etcd-1               Healthy   {"health": "true"}
```

> Remember to run the above commands on each controller node: `master-1`, and `master-2`.

## The Kubernetes Frontend Load Balancer

In this section you will provision an external load balancer to front the Kubernetes API Servers. The `kubernetes-the-hard-way` static IP address will be attached to the resulting load balancer.

Make sure you enter the below commands on the `loadbalancer` host by first sshing into it.


### Provision a Network Load Balancer

```
#Install HAProxy
loadbalancer# sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y haproxy

```

```
loadbalancer# cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg 
frontend kubernetes
    bind 192.168.5.30:6443
    option tcplog
    mode tcp
    default_backend kubernetes-master-nodes

backend kubernetes-master-nodes
    mode tcp
    balance roundrobin
    option tcp-check
    server master-1 192.168.5.11:6443 check fall 3 rise 2
    server master-2 192.168.5.12:6443 check fall 3 rise 2
EOF
```

```
loadbalancer# sudo service haproxy restart
```

### Verification

Make a HTTP request for the Kubernetes version info:

```
curl  https://192.168.5.30:6443/version -k
```

> output

```
{
  "major": "1",
  "minor": "13",
  "gitVersion": "v1.13.0",
  "gitCommit": "ddf47ac13c1a9483ea035a79cd7c10005ff21a6d",
  "gitTreeState": "clean",
  "buildDate": "2018-12-03T20:56:12Z",
  "goVersion": "go1.11.2",
  "compiler": "gc",
  "platform": "linux/amd64"
}
```

Next: [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md)
