docs/verify-certificates.md, before:

# Verify Certificates in Master-1/2 & Worker-1

> Note: This script is only intended to work with a kubernetes cluster setup following instructions from this repository. It is not a generic script that works for all kubernetes clusters. Feel free to send in PRs with improvements.

This script was developed to assist the verification of certificates for each Kubernetes component as part of building the cluster. This script may be executed as soon as you have completed the Lab steps up to [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](./09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md). The script is named as `cert_verify.sh` and it is available at `/home/vagrant` directory of master-1 , master-2 and worker-1 nodes. If it's not already available there copy the script to the nodes from [here](../vagrant/ubuntu/cert_verify.sh).

It is important that the script execution needs to be done by following commands after logging into the respective virtual machines [ whether it is master-1 / master-2 / worker-1 ] via SSH.

```bash
cd /home/vagrant
bash cert_verify.sh
```

Following are the successful output of script execution under different nodes,

1. VM: Master-1

    ![Master-1-Cert-Verification](./images/master-1-cert.png)

2. VM: Master-2

    ![Master-2-Cert-Verification](./images/master-2-cert.png)

3. VM: Worker-1

    ![Worker-1-Cert-Verification](./images/worker-1-cert.png)

Any misconfiguration in certificates will be reported in red.

Commit message:

Convert DOS newlines to Unix format
Appended following note to documentation:
~~~
If "bash cert_verify.sh" script displays an error stating "$'\r': command not found", then run following and continue - this is to convert DOS newlines (CR/LF) to Unix format:
sed -i 's/.$//' cert_verify.sh
~~~

docs/verify-certificates.md, after:

# Verify Certificates in Master-1/2 & Worker-1

> Note: This script is only intended to work with a kubernetes cluster setup following instructions from this repository. It is not a generic script that works for all kubernetes clusters. Feel free to send in PRs with improvements.

This script was developed to assist the verification of certificates for each Kubernetes component as part of building the cluster. This script may be executed as soon as you have completed the Lab steps up to [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](./09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md). The script is named as `cert_verify.sh` and it is available at `/home/vagrant` directory of master-1 , master-2 and worker-1 nodes. If it's not already available there copy the script to the nodes from [here](../vagrant/ubuntu/cert_verify.sh).

It is important that the script execution needs to be done by following commands after logging into the respective virtual machines [ whether it is master-1 / master-2 / worker-1 ] via SSH.

```bash
cd /home/vagrant
bash cert_verify.sh
```

Note: If "bash cert_verify.sh" script displays an error stating "$'\r': command not found", then run following and continue - this is to convert DOS newlines (CR/LF) to Unix format:
sed -i 's/.$//' cert_verify.sh

Following are the successful output of script execution under different nodes,

1. VM: Master-1

    ![Master-1-Cert-Verification](./images/master-1-cert.png)

2. VM: Master-2

    ![Master-2-Cert-Verification](./images/master-2-cert.png)

3. VM: Worker-1

    ![Worker-1-Cert-Verification](./images/worker-1-cert.png)

Any misconfiguration in certificates will be reported in red.
